Secretary or personal assistant is of the book 
of that a person whose work consists of supporting 
management, including executives, using a variety 
of project management, communication, or organizational 
skills. However this role should not be confused 
with the role of an executive secretary, who 
differs from a personal assistant. In many countries, 
an executive secretary is a high-ranking position 
in the administrative hierarchy. The functions 
of a personal assistant may be entirely carried 
out to assist one other employee or may be for 
the benefit of more than one. In other situations 
a secretary is an officer of a society or organization 
who deals with correspondence, admits new members, 
and organizes official meetings and events. 
A secretary, also known as a personal assistant 
or administrative assistant, has many administrative 
duties. The title secretary is not used as often 
as in decades past, and responsibilities have 
evolved to much more advance skill set such as 
mastering Microsoft Office applications: Word, 
PowerPoint, and Excel to name a few. The duties 
may vary according to the nature and size of 
the company or organization, and might include 
managing budgets, bookkeeping, attending telephone 
calls, handling visitors, maintaining websites, 
travel arrangements, and preparing expense reports. 
Secretaries might also manage all the administrative 
details of running a high-level conference or 
meeting and be responsible for arranging the 
catering for a lunch meeting. Often executives 
will ask their assistant to take the minutes 
at meetings and prepare meeting documents for 
review. In addition to the minutes, the secretary 
may be responsible for keeping all of the official 
records of a company or organization. A secretary 
is also regarded as an office manager. In 
a business, many job descriptions overlap. However, 
while administrative assistant is a generic term, 
not necessarily implying directly working for 
a superior, a secretary is usually the key person 
for all administrative tasks, and often referred 
to as the "gate keeper". Other titles describing 
jobs similar to or overlapping those of the traditional 
secretary are Office Coordinator, Executive Assistant, 
Office Manager and Administrative Professional. 
The work of an executive assistant differs a 
great deal from that of an administrative assistant. 
In many organizations, an executive assistant 
is a high-ranking position in the administrative 
hierarchy. Executive assistants work for a company 
officer or executive (at both private and public 
institutions), and possess the authority to make 
crucial decisions affecting the direction of 
such organizations. As such, executive assistants 
play a role in decision-making and policy setting. 
The executive assistant performs the usual roles 
of managing correspondence, preparing research, 
and communication, often with one or more administrative 
assistants or scheduling assistants who report 
to him or her. The executive assistant also acts 
as the "gatekeeper", understanding in varying 
degree the requirements of the executive, and 
with an ability through this understanding to 
decide which scheduled events, meetings, teleconferences, 
or e-mails are most appropriate for allocation 
of the executive's time. An executive assistant 
may from time to time act as proxy for the executives, 
representing him/her/them in meetings or communications 
and project managing the production of reports 
or other deliverables in the absence of the executive. 
An executive assistant differs from an administrative 
assistant (a job which is often part of the career 
path of an executive assistant) in that they 
are expected to possess a higher degree of business 
acumen, be able to manage projects, as well as 
have the ability to influence others on behalf 
of the executive. 
