Crafting a compelling job description is essential 
to helping you attract the most qualified candidates 
for your job. With more than 20 million jobs 
listed on Indeed, a great job description can 
help your jobs stand out from the rest. The 
key to writing effective job descriptions is 
to find the perfect balance between providing 
enough detail so candidates understand the role 
and your company while keeping your description 
concise. We’ve found that job descriptions between 
700 and 2,000 characters get up to 30% more applications. 
Use the tips and sample job descriptions below 
to create a compelling job listing. A job description 
summarizes the essential responsibilities, activities, 
qualifications and skills for a role. Also know 
as a JD, this document describes the type of 
work performed. A job description should include 
important company details - company mission, 
culture and any benefits it provides to employees. 
It may also specify to whom the position reports 
and salary range. An effective job description 
will provide enough detail for candidates to 
determine if they’re qualified for the position. 
Open with a strong, attention-grabbing summary. 
Your summary should provide an overview of your 
company and expectations for the position. 
Hook your reader with details about what makes 
your company unique. Your job description is 
an introduction to your company and your employer 
brand. Include details about your company culture 
to sum up why a candidate would love to work 
for you. Include an exact job location. Provide 
an exact job location to optimize your job posting 
so it appears higher in job search results. 
Include a list of hard and soft skills. Of course, 
the job description should specify education, 
previous job experience, certifications and technical 
skills required for the role. You may also include 
soft skills, like communication and problem solving, 
as well as personality traits that you envision 
for a successful hire. Keep your list concise. 
While you may be tempted to list out every requirement 
you envision for your ideal hire, including too 
many qualifications and skills could dissuade 
potential candidates. 
